Events cookbook (#370)
sharetribe/flex-docs: src/docs/cookbook-events/reacting-to-events/index.md

```javascript
integrationSdk.events.query();
```

In this guide, we are interested in detecting when a new listing is
published and therefore do not need to process all events that happen in
the marketplace. Instead, we can filter out only the relevant
listing-related events. Recall that the
[listing `state`](https://www.sharetribe.com/api-reference/integration.html#listing-states)
attribute indicates whether a listing is `draft` or `published` (among
other possible states) and that a new listing may become published in
one of three ways:

- a listing can be
  [created as published](https://www.sharetribe.com/api-reference/marketplace.html#create-listing)
- a listing can be created as
  [draft](https://www.sharetribe.com/api-reference/marketplace.html#create-draft-listing)
  and be
  [published](https://www.sharetribe.com/api-reference/marketplace.html#publish-draft-listing)
  separately
- in case your marketplace has the listing approval feature on, a
  listing that is pending approval becomes published when it is approved
  by an operator

Therefore, in order to cover both cases, we need to process both
`listing/created` and `listing/updated` events. A query for only these

> types of events would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
types of events looks like this:
```

const fiveMinutesAgo = new Date(now - 300000);
integrationSdk.events.query({
  createdAtStart: fiveMinutesAgo,
  eventTypes: 'listing/created,listing/updated',
});
```

Later in the guide, we will see how to use the data of events that the
application has already processed to query strictly for subsequent
events.

## Using event data to detect change

Even with the event type filtering in place, not all `listing/created`
or `listing/updated` events represent the logical change we may be
interested in (such as a listing being published for the first time). We
need to use the event [data](/references//events/#event-data) and in
particular the
[resource and previousValues](/references//events/#resource-data-and-previous-values)
to detect which events correspond to the change we want to react to.

A new listing is first published when one of these happen:

- a `listing/created` event shows that the current listing state is
  `published`
- a `listing/updated` event shows that the current listing state is
  `published` and the previous state was `draft`
- a `listing/updated` event shows that the current listing state is
  `published` and the previous state was `pendingApproval`

> In code, analyzing the event data may look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In code, analyzing the event data can be done like this:
```

marketplace operator, synchronising data with an external system and so
on.

## Polling events continuously using sequence IDs

In the guide so far we saw how to process events from a single query. In
practice, an application that reacts to events needs to poll for new
events continuously. In this section we will show how this is best
achieved.

In Flex, each event has a unique `sequenceId` and the
[sequence IDs are strictly increasing](/references//events/#event-sequence-ids).
Moreover, the `/events/query` Integration API endpoint always returns
events sorted by their sequence IDs in ascending order. This means that
once a batch of events is processed, the sequence ID of the last event
can be used to query for strictly newer events, using the
`startAfterSequenceId`
[query parameter](https://www.sharetribe.com/api-reference/integration.html#query-events).
For example:

```javascript
// Given the sequence ID of last processed event, query only for newer events
const lastEventSequenceId = 1234;
integrationSdk.events.query({
  startAfterSequenceId: lastEventSequenceId,
  eventTypes: 'listing/created,listing/updated',
});
```

> Using that knowledge, a polling loop can look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using that knowledge, a continuous polling loop works like this:
```

  } catch (err) {
    return null;
  }
};

const handleEvent = event => {
  // detect change and handle event
  // ...

  // Then store the event's sequence ID
  saveLastEventSequenceId(event.attributes.sequenceId);
};

const pollLoop = sequenceId => {
  var params = sequenceId
    ? { startAfterSequenceId: sequenceId }
    : { createdAtStart: startTime };
  queryEvents(params).then(res => {
    const events = res.data.data;
    const fullPage = events.length === res.data.meta.perPage;
    const delay = fullPage ? pollWait : pollIdleWait;
    const lastEvent = events[events.length - 1];
    const lastSequenceId = lastEvent
      ? lastEvent.attributes.sequenceId
      : sequenceId;

    events.forEach(e => {
      handleEvent(e);
    });

    setTimeout(() => {
      pollLoop(lastSequenceId);
    }, delay);
  });
};

// Load state from local file, if any
const lastSequenceId = loadLastEventSequenceId();

// kick off the polling loop
pollLoop(lastSequenceId);
```

## At-least-once and at-most-once event processing

No system ever operates without failures and therefore applications
should account for possible failure conditions during event processing.

> For instance, an API call to another system durung event handling may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, an API call to another system during event handling may
```

fail (sending notification, synchronizing state, executing other

> actions, etc), or the application itself may crash due to a bug or issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actions, etc), or the application itself may crash due to a bug or an issue
```

on the host system.

An important aspect of this is what is often referred to as
_at-least-once_ and _at-most-once_ processing in message processing
systems.

Consider the following scenarios:

1. the application receives an event, records persistently its sequence
   ID and then proceeds to handle the event

> 2. the application receives an event, hadles it fully and then records

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. the application receives an event, handles it fully and then records
```

   its sequence ID persistently

> Suppose that a failure occurrs during the event handling and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that a failure occurs during the event handling and the
```

application crashes. In scenario 1, when the application is restarted,

> it will query for new events, skipping over the event that faild to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it will query for new events, skipping over the event that failed to be
```

> handled, as it's sequence ID is already stored. Depending on when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
handled, as its sequence ID is already stored. Depending on when
```

exactly the failure occurred, the event may not have been fully handled
and therefore will be left unprocessed (this is at-most-once
processing). On the other hand, in scenario 2, when the application is
restarted, it will retry handling the failed event (since the last
recorded sequence ID is that of some previous event) and potentially may
process the event a second time (that is, at-least-once processing).

The preferable strategy for an application depends on the exact event
handling logic. For example, at-least-once processing may be preferable
in any of the following situations:

- when the event processing is idempotent, meaning that processing and
  event more than once does not produce undesired side-effects
- when it is tolerrable that some events may be processed multiple times
  (e.g. when a user may receive an occasional duplicate notification)

> On the other hand, at-most-once processing is be preferable if event the
> processing produces a side-effect that must not be repeated (such as
> making a money transfer) and can not be performed safely in an
> idempotent manner. In those cases, it may be desirable to handle the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, at-most-once processing is preferable if processing 
an event produces a side-effect that must not be repeated (such as
making a money transfer) and can not be performed safely in an
idempotent manner. In those cases, it may be desirable to handle the
```

failed events somehow manually and resume automatic event processing
only for subsequent events.

Note that, if events are processed in batches and only the sequence ID
of the last event in the batch is recorded, the effect of potential
failure may be amplified to affect all events in the failed batch.
Again, whether that is acceptable depends on the concrete event handling
mechanics.

It is possible to aim for an _exactly-once_ processing, as well. That
typically requires more machinery in order to provide that stricter

> guarantee and is beyond the scope of this guide.

Reviewer: I think in most scenarios exactly-once is not achievable. The only ways that I can quickly think of how to get there is transactions across system boundaries (which for the audience of this guide equals impossible) and idempotent side-effects in event handling, which was already covered. So I would change this to say that exactly once is not achievable in most environments to not get people's hopes up. Now this can be read "exactly once is doable but we were too lazy to cover it".

Author: I was thinking that maybe "check if operation succeeded" might be doable at least in some cases, but you're right that that's not guaranteed.
